CAD-CODER: AN OPEN-SOURCE VISION-LANGUAGE MODEL FOR COMPUTER-AIDED DESIGN CODE
GENERATION
Anna C. Doris1,∗, Md Ferdous Alam1, Amin Heyrani Nobari1, Faez Ahmed1
1Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA
ABSTRACT
Efficient creation of accurate and editable 3D CAD models
is critical in engineering design, significantly impacting cost and
time-to-market in product innovation. Current manual workflows
remain highly time-consuming and demand extensive user exper-
tise. While recent developments in AI-driven CAD generation
show promise, existing models are limited by incomplete repre-
sentations of CAD operations, inability to generalize to real-world
images, and low output accuracy. This paper introduces CAD-
Coder, an open-source Vision-Language Model (VLM) explicitly
fine-tuned to generate editable CAD code (CadQuery Python)
directly from visual input. Leveraging a novel dataset that we
created—GenCAD-Code, consisting of over 163k CAD-model
image and code pairs—CAD-Coder outperforms state-of-the-art
VLM baselines such as GPT-4.5 and Qwen2.5-VL-72B, achieving
a 100% valid syntax rate and the highest accuracy in 3D solid
similarity. Notably, our VLM demonstrates some signs of gen-
eralizability, successfully generating CAD code from real-world
images and executing CAD operations unseen during fine-tuning.
The performance and adaptability of CAD-Coder highlights the
potential of VLMs fine-tuned on code to streamline CAD work-
flows for engineers and designers. CAD-Coder is publicly avail-
able at: https://github.com/anniedoris/CAD-Coder.
NOMENCLATURE
LLM Large Language Model
VLM Vision-Language Model
1. INTRODUCTION
Generative AI has recently shown great promise in engi-
neering design, with large language models (LLMs) and vision-
language models (VLMs) beginning to automate parts of the
engineering design process [1]. An indispensable step in the de-
sign of any engineering system, consumer product, or structure
is the creation of a 3D Computer-Aided Design (CAD) model.
With the exception of specific functionalities, like generative de-
sign and topology optimization, the process of CAD modeling
– drawing sketches, defining constraints, extruding bodies – re-
∗Corresponding author: adoris@mit.edu
mains largely manual, performed by designers with years of engi-
neering experience and familiarity with CAD modeling software.
This has motivated researchers to seek ways to partially automate
CAD creation using learning-based approaches. An AI assis-
tant capable of generating editable CAD models from textual or
visual specifications would significantly reduce the time engi-
neers spend on manual tasks. It would also make CAD modeling
more accessible to beginners. An important goal of the research
has been to develop generative models that can produce valid,
parametric CAD models from high-level inputs, thereby acceler-
ating the design-to-production pipeline. Unlike most 3D shape
generation work that outputs meshes or voxels, a CAD automa-
tion system should provide modifiable designs in a programmatic
form, since practical engineering applications demand editability
and reusability of the 3D CAD.
Early approaches to AI-driven CAD generation have made
progress but face notable limitations. Many prior works trained
bespoke models solely on CAD data or limited synthetic distri-
butions, which restricted their scope of understanding. A num-
ber of works in recent years have explicitly trained ML models
from scratch to generate CAD, many focusing non-editable 3D
solid generation [2–6] with fewer focusing on editable, paramet-
ric CAD program generation [7–9]. Many of these past editable
CAD systems focused on a small set of primitive operations,
which limited their ability to handle real-world variation. CAD-
specific models that are trained from scratch lack the broad visual
and contextual knowledge that modern foundation models pos-
sess. As a result, prior trained-from-scratch CAD generators face
two generalizability issues: 1) they may fail on inputs that deviate
from their training distribution and 2) they fail when asked to use
CAD operations not seen during training. As many existing AI
solutions for 3D modeling either produce non-editable outputs
(e.g., meshes) or rely on specialized training with limited gener-
alization capacity, there is a need for a more robust approach to
editable CAD generation.
Meanwhile, vision-language foundation models (VLMs)
have achieved remarkable generalization across tasks in computer
vision and natural language processing (NLP). VLMs, large lan-
guage models (LLMs) integrated with vision encoders—such as
1

-- 1 of 15 --

FIGURE 1: Overview of CAD-Coder. The VLM accepts an image as input and outputs CadQuery code, which can be run as a
Python script to produce an editable, 3D solid CAD model. CAD-Coder has a LLaVA 1.5-type architecture and is fine-tuned on
the GenCAD-Code dataset.
GPT-4o 1 (closed-source) or LLaVA [10] (open-source)—have
the potential to mitigate these two issues. Pre-trained on bil-
lions of tokens, LLMs are already capable of generating code and
therefore have the capacity to output a complete, editable CAD
representation: code for CAD, using an existing, well-defined
CAD scripting library. Pre-trained on millions of images, VLMs
have learned meaningful latent representations of real-world im-
ages, positioning them well for CAD generation conditioned on
images of real objects.
Prior studies have used prompt engineering or few-shot
strategies to coax general VLMs into image-conditioned CAD
generation tasks, but without domain-specific training, their per-
formance and reliability remains limited (e.g., they may halluci-
nate incorrect geometry or produce code with syntax errors [11]).
Fine-tuning has been used to significantly improve the perfor-
mance of LLMs for text-conditioned CAD code generation [12]
and for image-conditioned generation of CAD programs ex-
pressed in domain-specific languages (DSLs) [13, 14]. However,
reliance on DSL-based CAD programs–rather than established,
full-featured CAD scripting libraries–restricts CAD generation to
the narrow set of operations defined in the DSL and reduces a
model’s ability to leverage its pretraining knowledge.
This raises the question: can we harness a generalist VLM to
generate parametric CAD code conditioned on images, bridging
the gap between high-level visual input and precise engineering
code? To our knowledge, no published work has fine-tuned an
open-source VLM specifically for the direct synthesis of CAD
code using a widely-adopted scripting library. There is a gap
in the literature for an approach that combines the broad CAD
1https://openai.com/index/gpt-4o-system-card/
scripting and visual pre-training knowledge of foundation models
with dedicated training on CAD code to achieve both versatility
and accuracy in image-conditioned CAD scripting automation.
In this paper, we propose CAD-Coder, an open-source
vision-language model tailored for computer-aided design code
generation. We utilize a powerful, general VLM and fine-tune
it end-to-end for the task of producing CAD code conditioned
on image inputs. Concretely, CAD-Coder takes in an image
and generates readily-executable code using CadQuery, a Python-
based parametric CAD scripting library. We validate CAD-Coder
through extensive experiments, demonstrating significant perfor-
mance gains over the state-of-art, image-conditioned, CAD code-
generating baselines. Notably, CAD-Coder attains an 100% valid
syntax rate, meaning every generated CAD script compiles suc-
cessfully — a substantial improvement over the compile rates of
existing solutions. In terms of generated 3D solid accuracy, CAD-
Coder’s generated shapes closely match the ground-truth solids,
improving upon the precision achieved by state-of-the-art base-
lines. We also conduct tests to probe generalization: for example,
we feed CAD-Coder photographs of real objects (outside the fine-
tuning dataset distribution) and prompt it to produce CAD code,
or, we ask it to use CAD operations not seen during fine-tuning.
In these challenging scenarios, CAD-Coder shows encouraging
performance, often producing reasonable CAD where trained-
from-scratch or DSL-based solutions would struggle.
In summary, our key contributions are as follows:
1. A VLM Trained for CAD Code Generation: We introduce
CAD-Coder, a fine-tuned, open-source vision-language
foundation model designed specifically for the generation of
CAD code. A LLaVA-derived VLM, our model, given im-
2

-- 2 of 15 --

age inputs, generates readily-executable Python CadQuery
code. Our fine-tuned VLM approach is different from ex-
isting methods in that it is an image-conditioned method
that outputs CAD in an established code representation (i.e.
CadQuery), addressing generalization limitations of prior
works.
2. Performance Comparison: CAD-Coder achieves superior
results on the CAD code generation task, outperforming
strong VLM baselines including GPT-4.5 and Qwen2.5-VL-
72B. It produces valid code in 100% of cases and signifi-
cantly improves geometric accuracy of generated solids over
previous methods, affirming our method of fine-tuning a
foundation model for this task.
3. CAD-Coder Generalization Experiments: We provide ev-
idence that CAD-Coder has generalization ability to tasks
not explicitly included in the model’s fine-tuning dataset,
owing to its inherited, broad knowledge. On a small test
dataset of images of real, 3D-printed objects, we illustrate
that CAD-Coder generates reasonable CadQuery code, an
advantage over trained-from-scratch CAD generation ap-
proaches which struggle with images out-of-distribution
with respect to their training data. We also illustrate that
with careful prompting and selection of the pre-trained LLM
that is fine-tuned, CAD-Coder variants can utilize CAD op-
erations not explicitly included in the fine-tuning dataset,
a benefit over existing trained-from-scratch approaches and
methods reliant on DSL-based CAD programs.
4. A Publicly Available Dataset of CAD Code Paired with
Images: We generate CadQuery Python code for 163,671
CAD models. These Python files accompany the rendered
CAD images from the GenCAD [9] dataset, comprising the
largest publicly available dataset, named GenCAD-Code, of
CAD code paired with CAD images.
Through these contributions, our work positions foundation
models as a promising avenue for next-generation CAD tools.
CAD-Coder not only bridges the gap between high-level visual
understanding and low-level CAD programming, but also under-
scores the value of marrying general VLMs with domain-specific
fine-tuning to meet the requirements of engineering design. The
following sections detail the methodology of CAD-Coder, its ex-
perimental evaluation against existing baselines, and a discussion
of CAD-Coder’s generalizability to tasks not seen during fine-
tuning.
2. RELATED WORK
Since a number of works – particularly in recent years – have
developed AI-based solutions for CAD generation, we narrow our
focus to those existing methods that support a conditional input
and generate editable CAD representations as output (Table 1).
2.1 Editable CAD Generation: Models & Training
The majority of the image and/or text conditioned editable-
CAD generation models presented in Table 1 make use of trans-
formers [21], which enable prediction of the next CAD operation
based on the previously predicted operations. Model architec-
tures differ in accordance with whether the model was trained
from scratch or makes use of pre-trained LLMs and/or VLMs.
2.1.1 Training from Scratch. Several works [9, 15, 16]
have trained conditioned, editable CAD generating models from
scratch. For example, [9] trained an image-to-CAD-program
model – consisting of three components – from scratch. They first
trained a transformer-based encoder-decoder to learn the latent
representation of the CAD commands and to autoregressively
generate CAD commands. Using the frozen CAD command
encoder, they contrastively trained an image encoder to learn a
joint image-CAD command latent space. Finally, they train a
diffusion prior model to generate CAD command latent vectors
conditioned on image latent vectors. Sequentially combining the
contrastively trained image encoder with the diffusion prior model
with the autoregressively trained transformer decoder yields their
model, GenCAD, which can generate a CAD command sequence
given an input image. GenCAD achieved SOTA – outperforming
DeepCAD [8] and SkexGen [7] – on chamfer-distance-based solid
accuracy metrics.
2.1.2 Leveraging Foundation Models. Instead of
training a model from scratch, researchers have begun utilizing
LLMs and VLMs as a foundation for CAD generation and design
automation. A key advantage of LLMs is their ability to handle
free-form user inputs and generalize across tasks, making them
attractive for engineering design applications.
Without Additional Training: A number of works have ex-
plored methods for using off-the-shelf pre-trained foundation
models, including leveraging multiple models [17, 18] or in-
tegrating the models with external tools [12, 19]. Alrashedy et
al. [17] argue that a single-pass LLM often fails to meet all design
requirements, so they incorporate a VLM in the loop to iteratively
verify and correct the output. In their CADCodeVerify frame-
work, GPT-4 first writes CAD code given a prompt, then a VLM
analyzes the rendered 3D solid and asks itself targeted questions
(e.g., “Are the holes the correct diameter?”). The VLM’s answers
help identify deviations, which are fed back to GPT-4 to refine the
code. This self-critique loop improved the shape accuracy and
success rates of generated models. Another work [18] models the
design process as a team of specialized AI agents and realize a
human-AI co-design loop with multiple LLM-based agents tak-
ing on different roles (e.g., requirement engineer, CAD engineer,
quality checker). This multi-agent approach mirrors how human
design teams iterate on CAD, and was shown to produce more
complete and error-checked CAD outputs than a zero-shot VLM.
CAD-Assistant by Li et al. [19] integrate a VLM “plan-
ner” with a Python-API-driven CAD engine (FreeCAD) to en-
able zero-shot solving of generic CAD tasks. [12] combined
GPT-4 and GPT-4V with a debugger so that model-generated pro-
grams with syntax errors could be iteratively improved. Despite
the power and extensive pre-training of OpenAI’s GPT models,
GPT-4 and GPT-4V were in many cases incapable of generating
accurate CAD code. CAD model accuracy (IOU) dropped to near
zero for mechanical spring CAD models, even when GPT-4 was
integrated with the debugger.
3

-- 3 of 15 --

TABLE 1: Overview of some existing approaches for conditional, editable-CAD generation.
Method Conditional
Input
Output: Editable-
CAD Representation 2D or 3D CAD Model
Architecture
Training
Method
GenCAD [9] Image CAD program 3D
Transformer encoder/decoder +
Contrastive image encoder +
Diffusion prior
From scratch
CSGNet [15] Image CAD program 2D/3D Encoder (CNN)
Decoder (RNN) From scratch
Text2CAD [16] Text CAD program 3D Transformer From scratch
CADCodeVerify [17] Text CAD Code:
CadQuery 3D
GPT-4
Gemini 1.5 Pro
CodeLlama
None:
Multi-Model
IdeaToCAD [18] Image + Text CAD Code:
CadQuery 3D GPT-4o None:
Multi-Agent
CAD-Assistant [19] Image + Text CAD Code:
FreeCAD 3D GPT-4o None:
Tool Augmented
LLM4CAD [11] Image + Text CAD Code:
CadQuery 3D GPT-4/GPT-4V + Debugger None:
Debugger
BlenderLLM [12] Text CAD Code:
Blender 3D Qwen2.5-Coder-7B-Instruct Fine-tuning +
Self-improvement
Text2CAD [20] Text CAD Code:
CadQuery 3D GPT-3.5 based Fine-tuning
Cad-VLM [13] Image + Text CAD program 2D
Asymmetric
transformer
encoder-decoder
Fine-tuning
OpenECAD [14] Image + Text CAD program 3D TinyLLaVA Fine-tuning
CAD-Coder
(Ours) Image + Text CAD Code:
CadQuery 3D LLaVA 1.5 Fine-tuning
With Fine-Tuning: The previously highlighted studies under-
score the growing role of foundation models in CAD and engi-
neering design. However, without additional training, there is a
limit to how much a model’s performance can improve on the
CAD generation task. Fine-tuning, where all or some portion of
a model’s weights are further trained on the desired task, offers a
middle-ground between training from scratch and leveraging off-
the-shelf pre-trained models. Relatively few studies—[12], [20],
[13], and [14]—have investigated foundation models’ capacity to
be fine-tuned for the CAD generation task. [12] perform end-to-
end supervised fine-tuning on an LLM to improve its ability to
generate Blender Python code. Finetuning results in 2X improve-
ment in the accuracy of generated 3D solids and in a substantial
reduction (∼30%) in the number of generated scripts with syn-
tax errors. Their fine-tuned model also substantially outperforms
GPT-4o and other closed-source LLMs in its ability to gener-
ate Blender CAD code. Similarly, [20] fine-tunes GPT-3.5 on
a specialized text-to-CadQuery dataset, significantly improving
success rates of code generation. Extending to the visual do-
main, [13] fine-tune a pre-trained vision transformer on a dataset
of sketches to improve its ability to generate 2D CAD. Yuan et
al. [14] use LoRA to train OpenECAD, a fine-tuned TinyLLaVA
model that outputs CAD programs given an image input, showing
that their method outperforms gpt-4o-mini on an accuracy-based
scoring function. The authors also illustrate the generalization
potential of fine-tuned VLMs, by demonstrating that OpenECAD
can generate a CAD program when conditioned on a hand-drawn
sketch (despite the fine-tuning dataset only including images of
CAD.)
A fine-tuned foundation model could offer several advantages
over training a CAD generation model from scratch. Pre-trained
models have already learned skills that are translatable to the CAD
generation task. When an existing, code-based CAD representa-
tion is used (e.g. CadQuery), fine-tuning a pre-trained LLM that
has pre-existing knowledge of that code could enable the model
to leverage pre-training knowledge and utilize CAD operations
that may have not been present in a limited fine-tuning dataset.
Likewise, if image-conditioned CAD generation is desired, uti-
4

-- 4 of 15 --

lizing a pre-trained image encoder (e.g. CLIP [22]) that has been
trained on millions of image-text pairs could improve the model’s
ability to generate a meaningful image latent vector. Even more
critically, pre-trained image encoders – which have been trained
on images of real-world objects – can promote CAD generation
conditioned on images of real-world objects, when most exist-
ing image-CAD datasets [9] available for training are limited to
images of rendered CAD. Our work continues along this line by
fine-tuning a vision-language foundation model specifically for
CAD code synthesis.
2.2 Conditional CAD Generation
Conditional methods are those that base their CAD gener-
ation on an input – typically text, an image, or both – so that
the generated CAD is derived from a user input. For mechanical
engineering tasks (e.g., creating CAD from a physical prototype),
conditional CAD generation is much more useful than uncondi-
tional generation, where CAD is generated by sampling from a
learned distribution. Until recently, much existing work on AI for
CAD has focused on unconditional generation [7, 8, 23].
All of the works presented in Table 1 explore methods for
input-conditional CAD generation. [12, 16, 17, 20] focus on
text-conditioned CAD generation. For example, Khan et al. [16]
present a direct text-to-parametric CAD framework that accepts
text instructions and outputs the corresponding CAD program.
While text-conditioned CAD generation allows for user control
over the generated CAD, geometries of real-world objects can be
difficult to express using natural language. [9, 15] develop models
explicitly trained to generate a CAD program given an input
image. Combining modalities, [11, 13, 14, 18, 19] all develop
methods for image + text conditioned CAD generation. [11] go
as far as to study the differences between conditioning VLMs
on text versus image + text for CAD generation. While text-only
conditioning was surprisingly effective, they found that providing
both image and text inputs increasingly paid off for more complex
solids. Building on these works and findings, CAD-Coder is
conditioned on both input images and text, although, for now, we
employ uniform text prompts.
2.3 Editable CAD Representations and Datasets
We also focus on methods and datasets that make use of
“editable” CAD representations, parametric CAD programs that
encode the design history of the geometric model. These editable
representations are more useful to mechanical designers than
other representations of 3D solids – such as voxels [2], point
clouds [3], or meshes [4] – since parametric values can easily be
modified after generation.
Refs. [8, 9, 13–15] train models that output editable CAD
in the form of DSL-based CAD programs. These CAD pro-
grams treat CAD commands as a language or as a grammar.
For example, [16] and [9] use the CAD program representa-
tion defined by [8], where a CAD program is represented as a
sequence of CAD command-parameter vectors, with individual
commands and parameters comprising a vocabulary. Limited to
2D, [13] use a different, but similarly structured, CAD program
representation. Ref. [14] also define their own DSL for CAD
commands (OpenECAD operations) which they later convert into
PythonOCC code for execution. These CAD program representa-
tions are challenging because they cannot generate solids without
conversion scripts that translate them into code-based formats,
and they are often incomplete. Ref. [13]’s CAD program rep-
resentation is limited to sketches (lines, arcs, and circles) plus
constraints while [8]’s CAD program representation is limited to
the same sketch commands (defined differently) plus extrusion
commands. As of yet, no complete – including splines, revolves,
sweeps, lofts, fillet, chamfer, etc. – CAD program representation
has been defined. Defining a complete DSL-based CAD pro-
gram representation would be challenging due to the non-linear
interdependence and referential nature of many CAD operations.
An alternative to defining a CAD program representation is
to utilize an existing, CAD code scripting package. Written in
widely-adopted coding languages (e.g. Python, C++), this CAD
code representation aligns well with the knowledge base of foun-
dation models. These scripting packages have the benefit of inher-
ently being editable while also offering a complete representation,
as they can be used to define any 3D CAD model. [11, 12, 17–
20] leverage pre-trained models to output code that can generate
CAD using the Blender API, 2 the CadQuery Python package, 3,
or the FreeCAD Python API. 4 The Blender API only works in
conjunction with the Blender application/GUI, which is primar-
ily designed for mesh-based animations and graphics. CadQuery
and FreeCAD are both wrappers around OpenCascade, 5 a power-
ful, B-rep-based geometric modeling kernel and both can be run
as stand-alone, GUI-less Python scripts for parametric CAD gen-
eration, an advantage over the Blender API. Given CadQuery’s
popularity [11, 17, 18, 20] and extensive documentation, we train
CAD-Coder to output CadQuery code. Note that in this paper, all
references to “CAD code” refer to an editable CAD representation
that makes use of a well-established CAD scripting library (e.g.
CadQuery), while “CAD program” refers to a commands-as-
vocabulary or author-defined DSL representation, such as those
used by [8, 9, 13, 14], discussed previously.
The availability of large scale, editable CAD datasets is
somewhat limited due to the difficulty of obtaining human-created
designs from commercial 3D programs. One of the largest avail-
able CAD datasets, ABC dataset [24], contains 1M 3D models
in different data formats such as STEP, STL, domain specific
language (FeatureScript), and image. However, the ABC dataset
includes duplicates and designs that do not produce valid 3D
shapes [25, 26]. Many of the available editable CAD datasets
in literature are variants of the ABC dataset. For example, the
DeepCAD dataset [8] contains approximately 172𝑘 CAD pro-
grams which are derived from a selected subset – those contain-
ing prismatic sketch and extrude operations – of 3D solids in the
ABC dataset. [16] build on the DeepCAD dataset by pairing
the 172𝑘 CAD models with 660K textual annotations. The Gen-
CAD dataset [9] also builds on the DeepCAD dataset by coupling
each of 168k CAD programs with five grayscale, isometric view
images (of varying scales) of the rendered CAD. Our dataset,
GenCAD-Code, builds on the GenCAD dataset by converting all
2https://docs.blender.org/api/current/
3https://CadQuery.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
4https://wiki.freecad.org/FreeCAD_API
5https://dev.opencascade.org/
5

-- 5 of 15 --

of the CAD programs into CadQuery code. Some existing CAD
code datasets exist, although they are limited in size. [12] gener-
ated a dataset of 8k Blender scripts, while [11] created a custom
dataset of 5 classes of mechanical parts (e.g., gears, springs) com-
prised of 5k examples, each consisting of a sketch, image, text,
and CadQuery script. Our dataset, GenCAD-Code—comprised
of 163k image-CadQuery pairs—significantly expands the scale
of image-CAD code datasets.
3. METHODS
In this section, we describe the generation of our GenCAD-
Code dataset and the architecture and training of CAD-Coder. We
also characterize the evaluation metrics we use and the baselines
we select for comparison with CAD-Coder.
3.1 Dataset Generation
To generate our GenCAD-Code dataset, we converted each
CAD program in the GenCAD dataset [9] to a CadQuery
script. Each GenCAD CAD program consists of a sequence
of CAD commands, and each CAD command is represented
by c𝑖 = (𝑡𝑖 , p𝑖 ), where c𝑖 ∈ R17, 𝑡𝑖 is the command type
(𝑡𝑖 ∈ {Sketch Line, Sketch Arc, Sketch Circle, Extrude}), and
pi ∈ R16 are the parameters associated with each command. We
write a script that directly converts each of these CAD commands
into its corresponding CadQuery code; additional details can be
found in our repository. The GenCAD dataset provides five CAD
rendered images per CAD program: one isometric view and four
scaled isometric views. This process resulted in our GenCAD-
Code dataset of 163,671 CadQuery scripts, each matched with
five CAD rendered images. There are 147,289 samples in the
training set, 7,355 in the test set, and 9,027 in the validation set.
The distribution of token counts for all 163k generated Cad-
Query scripts can be seen in Figure 2. The average number of
tokens per CadQuery script is 611 tokens, and 99.9% of the Cad-
Query scripts contain less than 3000 tokens. In general, 3D solid
complexity corresponds with number of tokens in its CadQuery
script (see Figure 2). The right-skewed dataset distribution illus-
trates that the dataset is imbalanced when it comes to simple and
complex examples. Future work will focus on improving dataset
balance to include more “complex” examples.
It is important to note that the direct conversion process
we use from the GenCAD CAD programs to CadQuery scripts
does not necessarily result in the most concise CadQuery code.
For example, the GenCAD CAD programs support only three
sketch operations: line, arc, and circle. These CAD programs
define rectangle sketches using four sequential line commands,
and as such, our generated CadQuery scripts do as well. However,
there is a more concise way in CadQuery to generate rectangle
sketches, namely the .rect() method. Future work will explore
methods for post-processing CadQuery scripts to leverage Cad-
Query’s native concise representations (e.g., replacing sequential
line commands with more efficient methods like rect()), thereby
reducing script complexity.
3.2 CAD-Coder Model Architecture and Training
To train CAD-Coder, we use the same architecture as LLaVA
1.5 [27] and follow a two-stage training process similar to the
FIGURE 2: Distribution of token counts for the CadQuery
scripts in our GenCAD-Code dataset.
visual instruction tuning method used to train LLaVA [10, 28].
This method synthesizes a pre-trained LLM with a pre-trained
vision encoder. We use Vicuna-13B-v1.5, a 13 billion parameter
LLM model, as our pre-trained LLM and CLIP-ViT-L-336px
as our vision encoder. CLIP-ViT operates on higher resolution
images (336x336 pixels) than other CLIP variants, enabling it to
capture finer image details.
Stage 1: Pre-training for Feature Alignment The function
of the pre-training phase is to learn a mapping from the image
features of the vision encoder to the word embeddings of the
LLM. This is done by training a two-layer multi-layer perceptron
(MLP) while keeping the vision encoder and LLM weights frozen.
The dataset used for this pre-training phase is identical to that
used by [10] and consists of 595k samples, each consisting of a
question (text-only, Xq) accompanied by an image (Xv) and an
answer (text-only, Xa). This dataset was generated by [10] by
taking 595K image-caption pairs from the CC3M dataset, where
Xv is the image, Xa is the original caption, and Xq is randomly
selected from a finite set of questions that asks, in some way, for
a description of the image (e.g. Xq = "Give a brief description
of the image."). The two-layer MLP is trained to maximize the
autoregressive likelihood function:
𝑝(Xa | Xv, Xq) =
𝐿	∏︂
𝑖=1
𝑝𝜃 (𝑥𝑖 | Xv, Xq,<𝑖 , Xa,<𝑖 ) (1)
where 𝐿 is the tokenized length of Xa, 𝜃 are the trainable
parameters (in this case the weights of the two-layer MLP), and
Xq,<𝑖 and Xa,<𝑖 are the question and answer tokens before the
current prediction token, 𝑥𝑖 .
3.2.1 Stage 2: End-to-End GenCAD-Code
Fine-tuning. After alignment of the vision encoder and
word embeddings during pre-training, we conducted supervised
fine-tuning. To fine-tune, we use the 147k GenCAD-Code train-
ing dataset described in Section 3.1. For each GenCAD-Code
6

-- 6 of 15 --

pair, Xa is the CadQuery code, Xv is the unscaled isometric
CAD rendered image, and Xq is always constant as: “Generate
the CadQuery code needed to create the CAD for the provided
image. Just the code, no other words.” We leave variation of the
text prompt as future work. We filtered out training samples (less
than 0.1% of the original training dataset) that would cause the
total number of tokens (Xq + Xv + Xa) to be greater than 4096,
the maximum number of tokens supported by many LLMs.
With the vision encoder weights frozen, we again maximize the
autoregressive likelihood function (Equation 1), except this time,
the trainable parameters, 𝜃, are both the two-layer MLP weights
as well as all of the LLM’s weights.
3.3 Evaluation
We compare CAD-Coder against state-of-the-art image-
conditioned, CAD-code-generating baselines using two primary
metrics. Due to the computational cost and inference time in-
volved in generating and evaluating CAD programs, we evaluate
all baselines on a representative subset of 100 randomly sampled
test examples. These samples are from the test set described in
Section 3.1 and formatted in the same way as the training data
(see Section 3.2.1).
3.3.1 Baselines. We compare our models to both closed-
source and open-source VLMs capable of generating CadQuery
code. For closed-source VLMs, we evaluate the top-three, best-
performing6 models on the MMMU benchmark leaderboard [29]:
GPT-o1 (OpenAI’s multimodal reasoning model), GPT-4.5 (Ope-
nAI’s advanced multimodal language model), and Gemini-2.0-
Pro (Google’s latest multimodal model). For open-source VLMs,
we evaluate the top-three, best-performing7 models on the Hug-
gingface OpenVLM Leaderboard [30]: InternVL2_5-78B-MPO
(Shanghai AI Lab’s large-scale open-source VLM), Ovis2-34B
(OpenGVLab’s open-source multimodal model), and Qwen2.5-
VL-72B (Alibaba’s state-of-the-art VLM). To demonstrate the ef-
fectiveness of our training data and method for image-conditioned
CAD-code generation, we also evaluate LLaVA-v1.5-13B, which
is trained identically to our models except stage 2 uses a generic
VQA dataset rather than our domain-specialized GenCAD-Code
dataset.
All of the baselines were tested using their default inference
parameters except for maximum output tokens, which was set
to 3450. This number was used so that the total number of
tokens (accounting for the fixed-length prompt and image tokens)
was 4096, the maximum number possible for many LLMs. An
exception was made for GPT-o1 (max_completion_tokens was set
to its default value), since its maximum output token quota is used
by both the final output and the reasoning process, which happens
under-the-hood and a user has no control on it. Since these
models were not trained on our GenCAD-Code dataset – which
ends each CadQuery script by returning the final solid assigned
to the variable “solid” – we appended to the prompt: “Assign the
final solid to the variable ‘solid’ in the last line of code. Do not
export or visualize the solid.” This addition facilitates automated
evaluation of the baselines’ generated code. For Qwen2.5-VL-
6As of March 17, 2025.
7As of March 17, 2025.
72B, we noticed that it often neglected to include package import
statements in its generated scripts, so we also appended to the
prompt: “Be sure to include necessary imports.” To encourage
reproducibility of our results, we evaluate CAD-Coder with a
temperature of 0 so that the VLM always selects the most probable
next token. For reproducibility, we provide all trained model
weights and the exact prompts used during evaluation.
3.3.2 Metrics. We evaluate all of the baselines and
CAD-Coder on two metrics: valid syntax rate (VSR) and the
intersection-over-union corresponding with the best alignment
between the model-generated solid and the ground-truth solid
(IOUbest).
Valid Syntax Rate (VSR): This metric is defined as the per-
centage of model-generated CadQuery scripts from the test sub-
set that are syntactically valid and return no errors when run as
Python files.
IOUbest: To compare the shapes of solid geometries, denoted as
Ω here, we first normalize the translation and scale of the models
using a normalization operator:
𝑛(Ω) = { x − ¯x√︂
tr(I)
2×Vol(Ω2 )
| x ∈ Ω}, (2)
where I is the matrix of inertia and x is the centroid for
the solid Ω. This normalization scales the object by the root
mean squared radius of gyration, a choice justified and proven
to be optimal in Appendix A and Lemma 2. Note that in this
paper, the goal is to generate correct geometry with respect to
images. As such, scale information is not inherently an input to
the models, and therefore, one must normalize scales for com-
parison. After this normalization, we align the principle axes
of the generated and ground truth solids. The direction of prin-
cipal axes is ambiguous, and as such we perform all possible
valid alignments and use the one with the best Intersection Over
Union (IOU) value. The choice of these normalization parame-
ters and the alignment proposed is justified in Appendix A. Unlike
commonly used metrics such as Chamfer distance with bounding
box or corner alignment (e.g., [8, 9]), where shapes are converted
to point clouds and normalized by translating the minimum to the
origin and scaling the maximum to 1, our approach provides a
higher fidelity and mathematically sound approach for comparing
solid objects. While IOU-based measures have been used before
to compare solid geometry [11], they have often been overlooked
in prior work on datasets such as DeepCAD [31], which relied
on the aforementioned Chamfer distance. As demonstrated in
Appendix A, we argue that our approach is a more robust and
principled alternative. Note that IOUbest is computed over the set
of CAD code scripts that execute successfully, excluding those
with syntax errors.
4. RESULTS
Below we evaluate the performance of our proposed vision-
language model (CAD-Coder) against baselines and additional
variants, assessing both code validity (VSR) and geometric accu-
racy (IOUbest) on the GenCAD-Code test set.
7

-- 7 of 15 --

TABLE 2: Evaluation of state-of-the-art, image-conditioned,
code-generating models on 100 samples from the GenCAD-
Code test set. All models are evaluated on their rate of gener-
ating syntactically-valid CadQuery scripts (VSR) and on the
accuracy of the resulting 3D solids (IOUbest).
Model 	VSR ↑ IOUbest ↑
Open Source Models
InternVL2_5-78B-MPO 88% 0.379
Ovis2-34B 	83% 0.408
Qwen2.5-VL-72B 	94% 0.352
LLaVA-v1.5-13B 	0% 0.0
Closed Source Models
GPT-o1 	88% 0.494
GPT-4.5 	84% 0.524
Gemini-2.0-Pro 	82% 0.445
Ours
CAD-Coder 	100% 0.675
4.1 Training Details
CAD-Coder is trained on 4 H100 GPUs. We follow the
training parameters used for LLaVA 1.5 [28] with the exception
of “max_model_length” which we set to 4096 for both stages
(rather than 2048) to accommodate longer CadQuery scripts.
Stage 1 training took 4.5 hours, and we trained for 1 epoch using
a learning rate of 1e-3 and an effective batch size of 256. Stage 2
training took 5.7 hours, and we again trained for 1 epoch using a
learning rate of 2e-5 and an effective batch size of 128.
4.2 Comparison with Baselines
We present the results of the evaluation of CAD-Coder
against existing image-conditioned, code-generating baselines in
Table 2. CAD-Coder outperforms all of the evaluated baselines in
terms of both the valid syntax rate and the IOU metric. For each
of the 100 samples in the test subset, CAD-Coder generates valid
CadQuery code that throws no errors when run as Python scripts.
The next-best performer in terms of VSR is Qwen2.5-VL-72B,
which has a valid script generation rate of 94%, although this
is accompanied by an IOUbest approximately half that of CAD-
Coder.
In terms of IOUbest, CAD-Coder – with a score of 0.675
– performs ∼60% better than the next-best open-source model
evaluated, Qwen2.5-VL-72B. CAD-Coder also outperforms all of
the closed-source models evaluated, and the next-best performing
model evaluated (GPT-4.5) has an IOUbest score 0.151 lower. To
help contextualize these IOU scores, we present various model-
generated 3D solids and their corresponding IOUbest scores in
Figure 3. All of the models are shown in the alignment that
maximizes their IOUbest score. The disk models in the top row are
organized from left-to-right by descending IOUbest score. CAD-
Coder’s generated solid – with a near perfect score of 0.963 –
very closely matches the ground truth solid with the exception
that the central hole is slightly larger. Even this small difference
of 0.04 from a perfect IOUbest score (1.0) is visually noticeable,
indicating that CAD-Coder’s 0.151 improvement in IOUbest score
over the next-best-performing model is significant. The second
row of Figure 3 shows a more complex solid. While CAD-
Coder’s generated solid is missing the rectangular feature in front,
its double triangle shape better matches the ground truth solid
than any of the baseline generated solids. This more complex
example illustrates how many of the existing image-conditioned,
code-generating baselines struggle as CAD model complexity
increases. While CAD-Coder achieves a higher IOUbest than the
evaluated baselines, it still has significant room for improvement,
particularly in generating CAD with more complex features.
It is also interesting to note that LLaVA-v1.5-13B – which has
the same architecture as CAD-Coder but is trained during stage 2
using a general-purpose VQA dataset rather than the GenCAD-
Code dataset – has a score of zero on both VSR and IOUbest
metrics. While the model generates code-type text reminiscent
of CadQuery, none of it is syntactically correct. This result
stems from the fact that LLaVA-v1.5-13B—and its underlying
LLM, Vicuna-13B-v1.5—seems to have no working knowledge
of CadQuery. This demonstrates the usefulness of the architecture
(LLaVA v1.5) and training strategy (domain-specific-only for
stage 2) that we use for CAD-Coder. Our method produces a
domain-specific state-of-the-art model, even when the pre-trained
LLM used has no pre-existing knowledge of the domain-specific
task.
4.3 Generalization Experiments
We hypothesized that a key benefit of training an image-
conditioned, CAD generating model using VLMs fine-tuned on
CAD code would be in the generalizability of the model. In
this section, we investigate the generalizability of CAD-Coder to
images of real-world objects and evaluate CAD-Coder’s extend-
ability to CAD operations not explicitly included in the GenCAD-
Code dataset.
4.3.1 Performance on Images of Real-World
Objects. While CAD-Coder was not explicitly fine-tuned to
generate CAD code from images of real objects, we hypoth-
esized that CAD-Coder’s use of a pre-trained image encoder
(CLIP-ViT-L-336px) would help it generalize to this unseen task.
To investigate its generalizability to real images, we 3D printed
five objects from the test set of GenCAD-Code dataset. We
photographed the objects on a wooden table at approximately
isometric angles (Figure 4), as all of the GenCAD-Code dataset
rendered CAD images capture isometric views of the CAD
solids. The 3D CAD models that CAD-Coder generates given
these real-image inputs can be seen in the second row of
Figure 4. While not perfect matches, these generated CAD
models conditioned on the real images broadly agree with the
ground-truth 3D solids. These results indicate that CAD-Coder
has potential – where trained-from-scratch models struggle – to
generalize to CAD generation from real images, even when not
explicitly fine-tuned on this task.
The importance of this rendered-CAD image to real-world
image translation cannot be overstated. Developing a sufficiently
large dataset of real images coupled with CAD code would be
extremely expensive, necessitating the time-consuming and costly
8

-- 8 of 15 --

FIGURE 3: Two examples comparing CAD-Coder’s generated solids with baseline generated solids. The IOUbest score quantifies
a solid’s similarity to a ground truth solid, where an IOUbest of 1 is a perfect score. The solids are depicted in their alignments
that yield the IOUbest score.
fabrication of hundreds of thousands of physical objects. As
such, image-CAD code datasets will likely remain limited to
images of rendered CAD models rather than real photographs for
the foreseeable future. However, the typical user of an image-
conditioned, CAD generating model will rarely input an image
of a CAD model, as this implies that they already have the CAD.
It is much more likely that a user would want to generate a CAD
model given a real photograph. Quantifying the generalizability
of CAD generating models to real images is therefore critical.
While CAD-Coder exhibits generalizability to real images,
the model still performs noticeably better at generating CAD code
given images of rendered CAD models, as seen by the relative
score differences between the second and third rows of Figure
4. In some of the real-image-conditioned generation examples
(e.g. objects 2 and 4), CAD-Coder predicts the correct CAD
operations, but a poor aspect ratio, resulting in a lower IOUbest
than the rendered-CAD image-conditioned equivalent. We can
see this for the second object, where CAD-Coder underestimates
the object’s side length. CAD-Coder’s decreased dimensional
accuracy given images of real objects – colorful images from
slightly varying perspectives – is perhaps not surprising given
that we train it on perfectly isometric and gray views. To mitigate
this perspective problem, future work will train CAD-Coder on
multiple material-rendered-CAD images (from different camera
perspectives) per CAD code sample. For objects requiring mul-
tiple extrudes (e.g., object 3), CAD-Coder, given the real images,
struggles to capture correct CAD operations for these more “com-
plex” solids. Improved generation for these more complicated
CAD models might be obtained by incorporating real images of
geometric solids into Stage 1 training, so the MLP layers learn a
better “description” of these types of images for the LLM.
4.3.2 Performance on Unseen CAD Operations. We
suspected that our approach of fine-tuning a foundation VLM
on CAD code would enable the model to extend to CAD op-
erations it did not explicitly see during fine-tuning. To test
this theory, we planned an experiment to ask CAD-Coder to
add fillets to generated solid models. Filleting is a good test
of CAD-Coder’s extensibility, as none of the examples in our
fine-tuning GenCAD-Code dataset included CadQuery code with
fillet commands, but CadQuery supports filleting operations
(using the solid.edges().fillet(fillet_radius) com-
mand). When prompted (in a second query) to add fillets to
all edges of a simple rectangular prism CAD model it had previ-
ously generated given an input image, CAD-Coder could not do
it. Even when the filleting prompt was explicitly provided – re-
minding the model of the correct syntax of the CadQuery filleting
command (see Figure 5) – CAD-Coder would output an extended
version of its original code that made no use of the specified fillet
command and was syntactically incorrect.
We suspected that CAD-Coder’s inability to fillet may stem
from the pre-trained LLM’s (Vicuna-13B-v1.5) lack of knowl-
edge about CadQuery. To better characterize Vicuna-13B-v1.5’s
knowledge of CadQuery, we prompted the text-only model to
generate CadQuery code of a 4x5x6 unit box with fillets on all
edges. The model was not able to generate syntactically correct
code. To remedy this issue of CAD-Coder’s limited knowledge
of CadQuery, we experimented with training CAD-Coder us-
ing a different pre-trained LLM. Qwen2.5-Coder-32B-Instruct
is the best performing model on an LLM coding leaderboard
(Hugginface’s bigcode-models-leaderboard 8), and we tested a
smaller variant (14B instead of 32B, due to compute constraints)
for evaluation on its ability to generate CadQuery code. When
given the same filleted-box text-only prompt that Vicuna-13B-
v1.5 struggled with, Qwen2.5-Coder-14B-Instruct output a Cad-
Query script that produced the desired solid model.
We trained another model, CAD-Coder-Qwen2.5-14B, fol-
lowing the same architecture and training procedure as CAD-
Coder except Qwen2.5-Coder-14B-Instruct was used as the pre-
8https://huggingface.co/spaces/bigcode/bigcode-models-leaderboard, as of
March 17, 2025
9

-- 9 of 15 --

FIGURE 4: We test CAD-Coder’s generalizability to real-image-conditioned CAD generation, a task not included in the fine-tuning
dataset. 1st row: we 3D print several objects from GenCAD-Code’s test set and photograph them at approximately isometric
views. 2nd row: CAD-Coder’s real-image-conditioned CAD generation. 3rd row: CAD-Coder’s rendered-CAD image-conditioned
CAD generation. 4th row: ground truth solids.
trained LLM in favor of Vicuna-13B-v1.5. Stage 2 training for
CAD-Coder-Qwen2.5-14B took 3.31 hours on 8 H100 GPUs.
We suspected that this model – given its pre-existing knowledge
of CadQuery – would perform significantly better than CAD-
Coder at adding fillets to a CAD model’s edges. However, when
given the same two-query filleting question as CAD-Coder, CAD-
Coder-Qwen2.5-14B produced syntactically invalid code, incor-
rectly using the .edges() CadQuery method (see Figure 5).
This result was surprising, since we knew that Qwen2.5-Coder-
14B-Instruct had accurate knowledge of these methods before its
fine-tuning in the CAD-Coder pipeline. This result indicates that
CAD-Coder-Qwen2.5-14B may have lost some of its pre-trained
CadQuery knowledge during fine-tuning.
In an attempt to help preserve Qwen2.5-Coder-14B-
Instruct’s pre-trained knowledge, we trained one more vari-
ant of CAD-Coder, which we call CAD-Coder-Qwen2.5-14B-
LowLR, identical to CAD-Coder-Qwen2.5-14B except with a
halved learning rate during Stage 2 training (1e-5 instead of
2e-5). This model also took 3.31 hours to train on 8 H100
GPUs. When given the same two-query filleting questions as
the other two CAD-Coder variants, CAD-Coder-Qwen2.5-14B-
LowLR successfully adds fillets to the generated solid (Figure 5).
This result suggests that with tuning of the Stage 2 training hyper-
parameters, CAD-Coder-type models have the potential to gener-
alize to CAD operations not explicitly included in the fine-tuning
dataset. It is important to note that CAD-Coder-Qwen2.5-14B-
LowLR’s extendability to unseen CAD operations is not robust.
The filleting prompt used (Figure 5) is quite prescriptive; more
abstract prompts (e.g. “add fillets to all edges”) that do not remind
the model about the .fillet() method usage do not elicit the
same correct behavior from CAD-Coder-Qwen2.5-14B-LowLR.
Future work will investigate training strategies that more effec-
tively preserve pre-trained LLM knowledge in VLM fine-tuning.
In Table 3, we also quantify CAD-Coder-Qwen2.5-14B and
CAD-Coder-Qwen2.5-14B-LowLR according to the VSR and
TABLE 3: Comparison of variants of CAD-Coder with differ-
ent pre-trained LLMs and learning rates, evaluated by Valid
Syntax Rate (VSR) and Intersection-Over-Union (IOUbest)
scores on the 100-sample test subset.
Model 	Pre-trained LLM Learning
Rate VSR ↑ IOUbest ↑
CAD-Coder 	Vicuna-13B-v1.5 2e-5 100% 0.675
CAD-Coder-
Qwen2.5-14B
Qwen2.5-Coder-
14B-Instruct 2e-5 95% 0.641
CAD-Coder-
Qwen2.5-14B-LowLR
Qwen2.5-Coder-
14B-Instruct 1e-5 94% 0.592
IOUbest metrics used in Section 4.2. Even though it leverages
a code-specific pre-trained LLM, CAD-Coder-Qwen2.5-14B un-
expectedly performs marginally worse than CAD-Coder on both
the VSR and IOUbest metrics. The 5/100 syntactically incor-
rect CadQuery scripts that CAD-Coder-Qwen2.5-14B generates
all correspond with relatively complex CAD models, but whose
ground-truth scripts fall within the 4096 token limit. In generating
these scripts, CAD-Coder-Qwen2.5-14B exceeds the maximum
token limit during generation, so the scripts are truncated mid-
command. Despite Stage 2 training on the GenCAD-Code dataset
(limited to 4096 token examples), CAD-Coder-Qwen2.5-14B’s
long generation behavior may be a result of the fact that its LLM,
Qwen2.5-Coder-14B-Instruct, was pre-trained to handle much
longer context lengths (up to 131k tokens). In contrast, CAD-
Coder’s pre-trained LLM, Vicuna-13B-v1.5, was pre-trained to
handle context lengths up to 4096 tokens. While further work is
needed to better adapt longer context pre-trained LLMs (>4096
tokens) to our shorter context length dataset, Qwen2.5-Coder-
14B-Instruct’s longer context limit will be useful in adapting this
work to more complex, longer token-length CAD scripts.
In comparison to CAD-Coder-Qwen2.5-14B, CAD-Coder-
Qwen2.5-14B-LowLR performs worse in terms of IOUbest. This
10

-- 10 of 15 --

FIGURE 5: Examples of CAD-Coder variants attempting to add fillets to CAD solids. The figure compares the performance of
CAD-Coder, CAD-Coder-Qwen2.5-14B, and CAD-Coder-Qwen2.5-14B-LowLR given identical filleting prompts. Only the LowLR
variant correctly applies the fillet operations.
result illustrates that lowering the learning rate – to preserve
pre-training knowledge of CadQuery and improve generaliza-
tion on unseen CAD operations – comes at the cost of reduced
performance on the fine-tuning task. The trade-off between im-
provement on the fine-tuning task and the retention of pre-trained
knowledge is a known problem for foundation models [32]. Sev-
eral fine-tuning strategies [33, 34] have explored alternatives to
end-to-end fine-tuning to better balance the two. We intend to
explore these in future work.
5. LIMITATIONS, FUTURE WORK AND CONCLUSION
While CAD-Coder demonstrates significant advancements in
CAD code generation, it also exhibits some limitations. Firstly,
despite its improved generalization to real-world images, the
model occasionally struggles to accurately infer precise dimen-
sions and proportions from images taken from varying perspec-
tives. This indicates that further work on perspective and real-
world image robustness, possibly through multi-view training
or image augmentation strategies, is required. Additionally, al-
though our experiments showed some capability to generalize
to unseen CAD operations, such generalization remains heavily
prompt-dependent, highlighting the need for enhanced strategies
to preserve and leverage pre-existing LLM knowledge during
fine-tuning.
Future research will also focus on improving the robustness
and generalizability of CAD-Coder by expanding the training
dataset and exploring more model architectures. Efforts will
be directed towards incorporating multi-view and perspective-
invariant image inputs into training to improve model accuracy
on real-world images. Developing an extensive test-set of real-
world images paired with CAD code would also help to rigor-
ously quantify the performance of CAD-Coder and other models
on the real-photo-to-CAD-code task. Other promising direc-
tions include exploring continual learning to better retain and ex-
tend pre-trained VLM knowledge of CAD operations. Utilizing
reasoning-based LLM models or incorporating chain-of-thought
logic into the fine-tuning dataset could also improve the accuracy
of generated 3D solids.
This paper introduced CAD-Coder, a Vision-Language
Model explicitly fine-tuned for generating accurate and editable
CadQuery code directly from visual inputs. Leveraging the new
GenCAD-Code dataset, we demonstrated substantial improve-
ments over existing image-conditioned, code-generating base-
lines, achieving state-of-the-art syntactic validity and geomet-
ric accuracy. Our findings illustrate the significant potential of
fine-tuned VLMs to streamline and enhance engineering design
workflows with editable CAD code generation, setting a strong
foundation for future research into automated CAD modeling.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authors gratefully acknowledge MIT-IBM for their par-
tial support of this work. This material is based upon work sup-
ported by the National Science Foundation Graduate Research
Fellowship. Any opinion, findings, and conclusions or recom-
mendations expressed in this material are those of the authors(s)
and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science
Foundation.
REFERENCES
[1] Alrashedy, Kamel, Tambwekar, Pradyumna, Zaidi, Zulfiqar,
Langwasser, Megan, Xu, Wei and Gombolay, Matthew.
“Generating CAD Code with Vision-Language Models for
3D Designs.” arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.05340 (2024).
[2] Zhou, Linqi, Du, Yilun and Wu, Jiajun. “3d shape gener-
ation and completion through point-voxel diffusion.” Pro-
11

-- 11 of 15 --

ceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on com-
puter vision: pp. 5826–5835. 2021.
[3] Luo, Shitong and Hu, Wei. “Diffusion probabilistic mod-
els for 3d point cloud generation.” Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition: pp. 2837–2845. 2021.
[4] Jun, Heewoo and Nichol, Alex. “Shap-e: Generat-
ing conditional 3d implicit functions.” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.02463 (2023).
[5] Liu, Zhengzhe, Wang, Yi, Qi, Xiaojuan and Fu, Chi-Wing.
“Towards implicit text-guided 3d shape generation.” Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition: pp. 17896–17906. 2022.
[6] Michel, Oscar, Bar-On, Roi, Liu, Richard, Benaim, Sagie
and Hanocka, Rana. “Text2mesh: Text-driven neural styl-
ization for meshes.” Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF con-
ference on computer vision and pattern recognition: pp.
13492–13502. 2022.
[7] Xu, Xiang, Willis, Karl DD, Lambourne, Joseph G, Cheng,
Chin-Yi, Jayaraman, Pradeep Kumar and Furukawa, Ya-
sutaka. “Skexgen: Autoregressive generation of cad con-
struction sequences with disentangled codebooks.” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2207.04632 (2022).
[8] Wu, Rundi, Xiao, Chang and Zheng, Changxi. “Deep-
cad: A deep generative network for computer-aided design
models.” Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Con-
ference on Computer Vision: pp. 6772–6782. 2021.
[9] Alam, Md Ferdous and Ahmed, Faez. “Gencad:
Image-conditioned computer-aided design generation with
transformer-based contrastive representation and diffusion
priors.” arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.16294 (2024).
[10] Liu, Haotian, Li, Chunyuan, Wu, Qingyang and Lee,
Yong Jae. “Visual Instruction Tuning.” (2023).
[11] Li, Xingang, Sun, Yuewan and Sha, Zhenghui.
“LLM4CAD: Multi-Modal Large Language Models for 3D
Computer-Aided Design Generation.” International De-
sign Engineering Technical Conferences and Computers
and Information in Engineering Conference, Vol. 88407:
p. V006T06A015. 2024. American Society of Mechanical
Engineers.
[12] Du, Yuhao, Chen, Shunian, Zan, Wenbo, Li, Peizhao, Wang,
Mingxuan, Song, Dingjie, Li, Bo, Hu, Yan and Wang,
Benyou. “BlenderLLM: Training Large Language Models
for Computer-Aided Design with Self-improvement.” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2412.14203 (2024).
[13] Wu, Sifan, Khasahmadi, Amir Hosein, Katz, Mor, Jayara-
man, Pradeep Kumar, Pu, Yewen, Willis, Karl and Liu,
Bang. “Cadvlm: Bridging language and vision in the gen-
eration of parametric cad sketches.” European Conference
on Computer Vision: pp. 368–384. 2024. Springer.
[14] Yuan, Zhe, Shi, Jianqi and Huang, Yanhong. “OpenECAD:
An efficient visual language model for editable 3D-CAD de-
sign.” Computers & Graphics Vol. 124 (2024): p. 104048.
[15] Sharma, Gopal, Goyal, Rishabh, Liu, Difan, Kalogerakis,
Evangelos and Maji, Subhransu. “Csgnet: Neural shape
parser for constructive solid geometry.” Proceedings of the
IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recog-
nition: pp. 5515–5523. 2018.
[16] Khan, Mohammad Sadil, Sinha, Sankalp, Uddin, Talha,
Stricker, Didier, Ali, Sk Aziz and Afzal, Muhammad Ze-
shan. “Text2cad: Generating sequential cad designs from
beginner-to-expert level text prompts.” Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems Vol. 37 (2024): pp. 7552–
7579.
[17] Alrashedy, Kamel, Tambwekar, Pradyumna, Zaidi, Zul-
fiqar Haider, Langwasser, Megan, Xu, Wei and Gombolay,
Matthew. “Generating CAD Code with Vision-Language
Models for 3D Designs.” The Thirteenth International Con-
ference on Learning Representations.
[18] Ocker, Felix, Menzel, Stefan, Sadik, Ahmed and Rios, Thi-
ago. “From Idea to CAD: A Language Model-Driven Multi-
Agent System for Collaborative Design.” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2503.04417 (2025).
[19] Mallis, Dimitrios, Karadeniz, Ahmet Serdar, Cavada,
Sebastian, Rukhovich, Danila, Foteinopoulou, Niki,
Cherenkova, Kseniya, Kacem, Anis and Aouada, Djamila.
“CAD-Assistant: Tool-Augmented VLLMs as Generic
CAD Task Solvers?” arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.13810
(2024).
[20] Sun, Yuewan, Li, Xingang and Sha, Zhenghui. “Large Lan-
guage Models for Computer-Aided Design (LLM4CAD)
Fine-Tuned: Dataset and Experiments.” Journal of Me-
chanical Design (2025): pp. 1–19.
[21] Vaswani, Ashish, Shazeer, Noam, Parmar, Niki, Uszkoreit,
Jakob, Jones, Llion, Gomez, Aidan N, Kaiser, Łukasz and
Polosukhin, Illia. “Attention is all you need.” Advances in
neural information processing systems Vol. 30 (2017).
[22] Radford, Alec, Kim, Jong Wook, Hallacy, Chris, Ramesh,
Aditya, Goh, Gabriel, Agarwal, Sandhini, Sastry, Girish,
Askell, Amanda, Mishkin, Pamela, Clark, Jack et al.
“Learning transferable visual models from natural language
supervision.” International conference on machine learn-
ing: pp. 8748–8763. 2021. PmLR.
[23] Willis, Karl DD, Jayaraman, Pradeep Kumar, Lambourne,
Joseph G, Chu, Hang and Pu, Yewen. “Engineering sketch
generation for computer-aided design.” Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition: pp. 2105–2114. 2021.
[24] Koch, Sebastian, Matveev, Albert, Jiang, Zhongshi,
Williams, Francis, Artemov, Alexey, Burnaev, Evgeny,
Alexa, Marc, Zorin, Denis and Panozzo, Daniele. “Abc:
A big cad model dataset for geometric deep learning.” Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition: pp. 9601–9611. 2019.
[25] Xu, Xiang, Lambourne, Joseph, Jayaraman, Pradeep, Wang,
Zhengqing, Willis, Karl and Furukawa, Yasutaka. “Brep-
gen: A b-rep generative diffusion model with structured
latent geometry.” ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG)
Vol. 43 No. 4 (2024): pp. 1–14.
[26] Jayaraman, Pradeep Kumar, Lambourne, Joseph G, De-
sai, Nishkrit, Willis, Karl DD, Sanghi, Aditya and Morris,
Nigel JW. “Solidgen: An autoregressive model for direct
b-rep synthesis.” arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.13944 (2022).
12

-- 12 of 15 --

[27] Liu, Haotian, Li, Chunyuan, Wu, Qingyang and Lee,
Yong Jae. “Visual instruction tuning.” Advances in neural
information processing systems Vol. 36 (2024).
[28] Liu, Haotian, Li, Chunyuan, Li, Yuheng and Lee, Yong Jae.
“Improved baselines with visual instruction tuning.” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2310.03744 (2023).
[29] Yue, Xiang, Ni, Yuansheng, Zhang, Kai, Zheng, Tianyu,
Liu, Ruoqi, Zhang, Ge, Stevens, Samuel, Jiang, Dongfu,
Ren, Weiming, Sun, Yuxuan et al. “Mmmu: A massive
multi-discipline multimodal understanding and reasoning
benchmark for expert agi.” Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition:
pp. 9556–9567. 2024.
[30] Duan, Haodong, Yang, Junming, Qiao, Yuxuan, Fang,
Xinyu, Chen, Lin, Liu, Yuan, Dong, Xiaoyi, Zang, Yuhang,
Zhang, Pan, Wang, Jiaqi et al. “Vlmevalkit: An open-
source toolkit for evaluating large multi-modality models.”
Proceedings of the 32nd ACM International Conference on
Multimedia: pp. 11198–11201. 2024.
[31] Jiang, Shuo, Hu, Jie, Magee, Christopher L and Luo, Jianxi.
“Deep learning for technical document classification.” IEEE
Transactions on Engineering Management (2022).
[32] Luo, Yun, Yang, Zhen, Meng, Fandong, Li, Yafu, Zhou,
Jie and Zhang, Yue. “An empirical study of catastrophic
forgetting in large language models during continual fine-
tuning.” arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.08747 (2023).
[33] Mukhoti, Jishnu, Gal, Yarin, Torr, Philip HS and Dokania,
Puneet K. “Fine-tuning can cripple your foundation model;
preserving features may be the solution.” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2308.13320 (2023).
[34] Heyrani Nobari, Amin, Alimohammadi, Kaveh, Arjomand-
Bigdeli, Ali, Srivastava, Akash, Ahmed, Faez and Azizan,
Navid. “Activation-Informed Merging of Large Language
Models.” arXiv e-prints (2025): pp. arXiv–2502.
[35] Gower, John C and Dijksterhuis, Garmt B. Pro-
crustes Problems. Oxford University Press (2004). DOI
10.1093/acprof:oso/9780198510581.001.0001. URL https:
//doi.org/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780198510581.001.0001.
APPENDIX A. OPTIMAL SOLID MODEL ALIGNMENT
In this section, we detail the continuous solid shape (Rigid
Body) alignment problem formally and demonstrate how two
shapes are aligned to measure the intersection over union (IOU)
for two given shapes. Firstly, we treat solid objects as rigid
bodies in 3-dimensional space, that is to say, an arbitrary solid in
space is represented as an in-definite set Ω ⊂ R3 with boundary
Γ : 𝜕Ω. Given such a solid body we seek to identify the optimal
transformation to align any two arbitrary solid geometries.
First, we will analyze the case of two identical (in shape)
rigid bodies that have been transformed in space arbitrarily, that
is to say, that they have been rotated, scaled, and translated ar-
bitrarily. Under this assumption Lemma 1 implies there exists a
relative volume preserving bijection, 𝑓 : Ω1 → Ω2 between the
two sets. Note that given the indefinite (continuous) nature of the
bodies, hence making the cardinality of sets the same, there exist
infinitely many bijections between the two sets. Here we assume
that we know the ideal bijection between the identical shapes. Ul-
timately, the assumption made is that we know the solution to our
problem exists, and we formulate the normalization that will al-
low us to actually find this solution. More intuitively, 𝑓 maps the
points in Ω1 to the exact same part of the shape in Ω2 with respect
to the shape. This assumption comes with no loss of generality
in our shape analysis, and we will not assume anything about 𝑓
in general other than it’s existence and relative volume preserva-
tion. The existence of 𝑓 , is implied by the fact that the shapes
are assumed to be identical, meaning they are identical mani-
folds transformed with an invertible affine transformation (See
Lemma 1). Ultimately 𝑓 represents the correspondence between
the points in the two sets in 3D Euclidean space, similar to the
correspondence often seen in point-based shape matching, made
continuous in an abstract sense (no assumptions other than ex-
istence are needed for our purposes). Given this bijection, we
define the distance/difference between two solid bodies as:
𝑑(Ω1, Ω2) :=
∫
Ω1
∥x − 𝑓 (x)∥2
2 𝑑x (3)
Where 𝑑x is the volume differential in Euclidean space. This
is essentially the volume integral of the distance between the
points in Ω1 and Ω2 given bijection 𝑓 . Now we formulate our
problem of aligning said shapes, namely finding the transforma-
tion (inverse of 𝑓 ) such that if applied to Ω1 maps it onto Ω2,
as:
min
R,𝑠,t 𝑑 =
∫
Ω1
∥𝑠Rx + t − 𝑓 (x)∥2
2 𝑑x
s.t. R ∈ SO(3)
RRT = I
t ∈ R3
𝑠 > 0
(4)
Where R is a rotation matrix, 𝑠 is a real number representing
the scale, and t is a translation vector in this setting. In Lemma 2
we attempt to solve this alignment problem for identical shapes.
We show that under this assumption of 𝑓 ’s existence, we can solve
the problem given two solids. However, we do not necessarily
have identical shapes when comparing a target CAD model with
a candidate reconstruction. However, we can establish a shape
normalization scheme that guarantees identical shapes will be in
perfect coincidence. Noting Lemma 2, we propose the operator:
𝑛(Ω) = { x − ¯x√︂
tr(𝐼 )
2×Vol(Ω2 )
| x ∈ Ω}, (5)
where I is the matrix of inertia for solid Ω. Finally, we
observed in Lemma 2, that the ideal alignment will align the
principle axes of two solids, as such given two solids we first nor-
malize scale and translation using (5) and then align the principle
axes of inertial from I for each solid. Note that the alignment of
the principal axes is ambiguous as the direction of the principal
axes is not known. As such there are 8 possible ways to align
said angles of which 4 are valid rotations in 𝑆𝑂 (3), meaning that
13

-- 13 of 15 --

in practice we perform all 4 alignments and pick the one with the
best IOU.
Lemma 1. Let Ω1 ⊂ R3 be a bounded solid with nonzero volume
and let
Ω2 = { 𝑠 Rx + t | x ∈ Ω1 }
be its image under an affine transformation where R ∈ 𝑆𝑂 (3) (so
that det(R) = 1), 𝑠 > 0, and t ∈ R3. Then the mapping
𝑓 : Ω1 → Ω2, 𝑓 (x) = 𝑠 Rx + t,
is a bijection satisfying the following relative volume preservation
property: For any integrable function 𝑔 : Ω2 → R,
∫
Ω2
𝑔(y) 𝑑y = Vol(Ω2)
Vol(Ω1)
∫
Ω1
𝑔(︁ 𝑓 (x))︁ 𝑑x.
Proof. 1. Bijectivity: The transformation
𝑓 (x) = 𝑠 Rx + t
is an affine map. Since R is a rotation (and thus invertible) and
𝑠 > 0, the matrix 𝑠 R is invertible. Consequently, 𝑓 is one-to-one
and onto, with the inverse given by
𝑓 −1 (y) = R𝑇(︃ y − t
𝑠
)︃
 
.
2. Jacobian Determinant and Volume Scaling: Since 𝑓 is
affine, its differential 𝐷 𝑓 (x) is constant and equal to 𝑠 R for all
x ∈ Ω1. Its Jacobian determinant is
det(︁ 𝑠 R)︁ = 𝑠3 det(R) = 𝑠3,
because det(R) = 1 given 𝑅 ∈ 𝑆𝑂 (3).
3. Change of Variables and Relative Volume Preserva-
tion: By the change-of-variable, for any integrable function 𝑔
defined on Ω2,
∫
Ω2
𝑔(y) 𝑑y =
∫
Ω1
𝑔(︁ 𝑓 (x))︁|︁|︁ det(︁ 𝐷 𝑓 (x))︁|︁|︁ 𝑑x = 𝑠3
∫
Ω1
𝑔(︁ 𝑓 (x))︁ 𝑑x.
In particular, choosing 𝑔(y) ≡ 1 yields
Vol(Ω2) = 𝑠3 Vol(Ω1) ⇒ 𝑠3 = Vol(Ω2)
Vol(Ω1) ,
where Vol(Ω1) = ∫
Ω1 𝑑x and Vol(Ω2) = ∫
Ω2 𝑑x This demon-
strates that the mapping 𝑓 not only provides a bijective corre-
spondence between points in Ω1 and Ω2, but it also preserves the
relative volume distribution.
Lemma 2 (Optimal Rigid-Body Alignment). Let Ω1 and Ω2 be
two identical in shape rigid bodies in R3, assumed to be related
by a transformation:
𝑓 : Ω1 → Ω2, 𝑓 (x) = 𝑠∗ R∗x + t∗
Define
min
R∈𝑆𝑂 (3), 𝑠>0, t∈R3
∫
Ω1
∥︁∥︁
 
𝑠 R x + t − 𝑓 (x)∥︁∥︁ 2
2 𝑑x.
Then there exists a unique solution:
R∗ = VUT,
𝑠∗ =
√︂
tr(I2 )
Vol(Ω2 )√︂
tr(I1 )
Vol(Ω1 )
,
𝑡∗ = ¯𝑥2 − 𝑠𝑅 ¯𝑥1,
where I1 and I2 are the matrices of inertia for solid Ω1 and
Ω2 respectively and:
¯𝑥1 =
∫
Ω1 x dx
∫
Ω1 dx , ¯𝑥2 =
∫
Ω2 x dx
∫
Ω2 dx ,
S =
∫
Ω1
( 𝑓 (x) − ¯x2) (x − x1)T dx = U𝚺VT,
that achieves this minimum.
Proof. First, we note that by Lemma 1, 𝑓 is a volume preserving
bijection. We will use this fact in our derivation of the solution.
To find the ideal translation vector we differentiate the objective
with respect to the translation and find the root of the gradient:
𝜕𝑑
𝜕𝑡 = 𝜕
𝜕𝑡
∫
Ω1
∥𝑠Rx + t − 𝑓 (x)∥2
2 𝑑x = 2
∫
Ω1
(𝑠 𝑅 𝑥 + 𝑡 − 𝑓 (𝑥)) 𝑑x.
(6)
Note that we can move the differentiation operation inside
the integral given the Leibniz rule. Given this, we can find the
root of the gradient to obtain the optimal translation:
∫
Ω1
(𝑠 R 𝑥 + 𝑡∗ − 𝑓 (𝑥)) 𝑑x =
𝑠 R
∫
Ω1
𝑥 𝑑x + t∗
∫
Ω1
𝑑x −
∫
Ω1
𝑓 (𝑥) 𝑑x =
𝑠 R
∫
Ω1 𝑥 𝑑x
∫
Ω1 𝑑x + t∗ −
∫
Ω1 𝑓 (𝑥) 𝑑x
∫
Ω1 𝑑x = 0
⇒ t∗ =
∫
Ω1 𝑓 (𝑥) 𝑑x
∫
Ω1 𝑑x − 𝑠 R
∫
Ω1 𝑥 𝑑x
∫
Ω1 𝑑x .
(7)
Now let ¯𝑥1, and ¯𝑥2 be the centroids of Ω1 and Ω2 respectively:
¯𝑥1 =
∫
Ω1 𝑥 dx
∫
Ω1 𝑑x , ¯𝑥2 =
∫
Ω2 𝑥 𝑑x
∫
Ω2 𝑑x (8)
by lemma 1 we have:
t∗ = ¯x2 − 𝑠𝑅 ¯x1 (9)
we can see that the sets Ω1 and Ω2 can be normalized with
respect to translation by removing the centroids, defining ˜	Ω1 and
˜	Ω2 as:
˜Ω1 = {𝑥 − ¯𝑥1 | 𝑥 ∈ Ω1 } (10)
˜Ω2 = {𝑥 − ¯𝑥2 | 𝑥 ∈ Ω2 } (11)
14

-- 14 of 15 --

With this normalization, we have the variable change:
˜x = x − ¯x1 and ˜𝑓 (x) = 𝑓 (x) − ¯x2, (12)
which allows us to rewrite our objective as:
𝑑 (𝑠, R) =
∫
Ω1
∥𝑠R˜x − ˜𝑓 (x)∥2
2 𝑑x. (13)
From Lemma 1, we assumed that there exists 𝑓 (x) = 𝑠∗R∗x+
t∗ which means ˜𝑓 (x) = 𝑠∗R∗x given our solution for t∗. Here
we can show that 𝑠∗ can be deduced given the change of variable
with translation. Lemma 1 implies:
∫
Ω2
∥x − ¯x2 ∥2 = Vol(Ω2)
Vol(Ω2)
∫
Ω1
∥𝑠∗R∗ (x − x1)∥2 (14)
Note ∥Rx∥ = ∥x∥ given R ∈ 𝑆𝑂 (3), therefore:
∫
Ω2
∥x − ¯x2 ∥2 = 𝑠∗2 Vol(Ω2)
Vol(Ω1)
∫
Ω1
∥x − ¯x1 ∥2 (15)
This implies:
𝑠∗ =
√︃	
∫
Ω2 ∥x− ¯x2 ∥2 𝑑x
Vol(Ω2 )√︃	
∫
Ω1 ∥x− ¯x1 ∥2 𝑑x
Vol(Ω1 )
. (16)
Let I1 and I2 be the tensors of inertia for Ω1 and Ω2, by
definition ∫
Ω1 ∥x − ¯x1 ∥2 𝑑x = 1
2 tr(𝐼1) and ∫
Ω2 ∥x − ¯x2 ∥2 𝑑x =
1
2 tr(𝐼2), therefore:
𝑠∗ =
√︂
tr(𝐼2 )
Vol(Ω2 )√︂
tr(𝐼1 )
Vol(Ω1 )
. (17)
Note that this is under the Euclidean norm objective, and
the L1 norm would yield a different scaling (Rotation would not
preserve distance under L1 norm in Euclidean space). Now we
can introduce the following symbols to simplify expressions:
A =
∫
Ω1
˜x˜x𝑇 𝑑x, Note:
∫
Ω1
∥ ˜x∥2 𝑑x = tr(A1) = 1
2 tr(I1) (18)
S =
∫
Ω1
˜𝑓 (x) ˜x𝑇 𝑑x, Note:
∫
Ω1
⟨R ˜x, ˜𝑓 (x)⟩ 𝑑x = tr
(︂
 R S
)︂
 (19)
Noting that ∫
Ω1 ∥ ˜𝑓 (x)∥2 𝑑x is a constant and we will refer to
it as 𝐶 below:
𝑑 (𝑠, R) = 𝑠2 tr(A) − 2𝑠 tr(R S) + 𝐶 (20)
We can see that rotation only affects the objective only in
the term −2𝑠 tr(R S) and since 𝑠 > 0 the optimal rotation R∗ is
equivalent to the solution to maxR∗ ∈𝑆𝑂 (3) tr(R S), which is an
orthogonal Procrustes problem which can be solved by singular
value decomposition [35]. Let S = U𝚺V𝑇 be the singular value
decomposition of S, then tr(R S) = tr(VTRU𝚺) which given all
of U, V, R are orthogonal will be maximized when VTRU = I,
hence:
R∗ = VUT (21)
Let:
A1 =
∫
Ω1
˜x˜x𝑇 𝑑x (22)
A2 =
∫
Ω1
˜𝑓 (x) ˜𝑓 (x)𝑇 𝑑x, (23)
Note that by definition of the matrix of inertia (namely I =	∫
Ω
(︁
 ∥x − ¯x∥2I3 − (x − ¯x)(x − ¯x)𝑇)︁ 𝑑x.), we have:
A𝑖 = 1
2 tr(I𝑖 ) I3 − I𝑖 ∀𝑖 ∈ {1, 2} (24)
Moreover, given the assumption of 𝑓 ’s existence, plugging
in the optimal transformation we have:
A2 =
∫
Ω1
˜𝑓 (x) ˜𝑓 (x)𝑇 𝑑x
=
∫
Ω1
𝑠∗R∗ ˜x˜x𝑇 R∗𝑇 𝑠∗ 𝑑x
=𝑠∗2R∗ 𝐴1R∗𝑇
(25)
Noting the fact that the eigenvectors of Ai are the same as
Ii from (24) we can see that interestingly this rotation aligns the
principal axes of inertia for the two solids without ambiguity.
However, in certain settings, one may choose to perform all pos-
sible 4 valid alignments of principle axes (8 possibilities with
directional ambiguity of eigenvectors of the matrix of inertia, 4
of which will be valid rotations in 𝑆𝑂 (3)) instead of finding the
continuous covariance matrix 𝑆 and performing a singular value
decomposition on it. Hence, the unique minimizing transfor-
mation parameters R∗, 𝑠∗, t∗ are given by the formulas above,
completing the proof.
15

-- 15 of 15 --

